- [Tutor] In addition to helping us style our applications,
JSF also provides components that we can leverage
in order to display data.
We're going to take a look at one of those components
in this lesson.
You remember that we have our items list
on our Catalog Item Form Bean.
And that serves as the backing beam for our form
and now it's going to serve as a backing beam
for our list page.
So instead of just displaying the individual field,
we're going to add a new component to this page
and it's going to be a data table.
So inside the data table, we're able to specify columns
that will display as part of the table.
To do that, we can use the facet tag
and we specify that we want the facet to be a header
and then we provide the name for that column header.
Then after that, we can specify an output text.
And that output text can be bound to an item
that is contained within the collection bound
to the data table.
So let's go ahead and bind our collection to the data table.
So we use the expression language
to bind the items collection
and then within the table element,
we can specify the name
of a variable that will hold each individual item
within the collection.
And now we can use that variable name in order to bind
to that item within our table.
So, there we see the binding for one of our columns.
Let's go ahead and add the other columns
we'd like to display.
So we'll need a column for the manufacturer
which is another field contained on the item.
And then we'll also have the available date.
And we use expression language to reference that.
And then finally, we're going to display our description.
And we'll change up the name on that header.
So we'll go ahead and format our html
and then I'm going to save the application
and now we can go ahead and run the project.
We can then go to our form and we can add a new product.
I'm just going to add gloves once again.
And then we can go ahead and submit.
And here you can see our data table
that is displaying the information found
within our collection.
So if we were to go back, we could add a second product,
let's say mittens.
And you'll see that another row is displayed
within our data table.
So, that's one of the components that we can leverage
to display information to the end-user.
It will cause a component to be built
within the Facelets component tree.
And there's many of those within JSF
that you could leverage for displaying data.